docs/how-tos/backup-to-s3.md, before:

---
title: Backup to AWS S3
layout: default
parent: How Tos
nav_order: 2
---
# Backup to AWS S3 

{: .note }
As described on local backup section, to change the storage of you backup and use S3 as storage. You need to add `--storage s3` (-s s3).
You can also specify a specify folder where you want to save you data by adding `--path /my-custom-path` flag.


## Backup to S3

```yml
services:
  mysql-bkup:
    # In production, it is advised to lock your image tag to a proper
    # release version instead of using `latest`.
    # Check https://github.com/jkaninda/mysql-bkup/releases
    # for a list of available releases.
    image: jkaninda/mysql-bkup
    container_name: mysql-bkup
    command: backup --storage s3 -d database --path /my-custom-path
    environment:
      - DB_PORT=3306
      - DB_HOST=mysql
      - DB_NAME=database
      - DB_USERNAME=username
      - DB_PASSWORD=password
      ## AWS configurations
      - AWS_S3_ENDPOINT=https://s3.amazonaws.com
      - AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME=backup
      - AWS_REGION="us-west-2"
      - AWS_ACCESS_KEY=xxxx
      - AWS_SECRET_KEY=xxxxx
      ## In case you are using S3 alternative such as Minio and your Minio instance is not secured, you change it to true
      - AWS_DISABLE_SSL="false"
 
    # mysql-bkup container must be connected to the same network with your database
    networks:
      - web
networks:
  web:
```

### Recurring backups to S3

As explained above, you need just to add AWS environment variables and specify the storage type `--storage s3`.
In case you need to use recurring backups, you can use `--mode scheduled` and specify the periodical backup time by adding `--period "0 1 * * *"` flag as described below.

```yml
services:
  mysql-bkup:
    # In production, it is advised to lock your image tag to a proper
    # release version instead of using `latest`.
    # Check https://github.com/jkaninda/mysql-bkup/releases
    # for a list of available releases.
    image: jkaninda/mysql-bkup
    container_name: mysql-bkup
    command: backup --storage s3 -d my-database --mode scheduled --period "0 1 * * *"
    environment:
      - DB_PORT=3306
      - DB_HOST=mysql
      - DB_NAME=database
      - DB_USERNAME=username
      - DB_PASSWORD=password
     ## AWS configurations
      - AWS_S3_ENDPOINT=https://s3.amazonaws.com
      - AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME=backup
      - AWS_REGION="us-west-2"
      - AWS_ACCESS_KEY=xxxx
      - AWS_SECRET_KEY=xxxxx
      ## In case you are using S3 alternative such as Minio and your Minio instance is not secured, you change it to true
      - AWS_DISABLE_SSL="false"
     # mysql-bkup container must be connected to the same network with your database
    networks:
      - web
networks:
  web:
```

## Deploy on Kubernetes

For Kubernetes, you don't need to run it in scheduled mode. You can deploy it as CronJob.

### Simple Kubernetes CronJob usage:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: CronJob
metadata:
  name: bkup-job
spec:
  schedule: "0 1 * * *"
  jobTemplate:
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: mysql-bkup
            image: jkaninda/mysql-bkup
            command:
            - /bin/sh
            - -c
            - backup -s s3 --path /custom_path
            env:
              - name: DB_PORT
                value: "3306" 
              - name: DB_HOST
                value: ""
              - name: DB_NAME
                value: ""
              - name: DB_USERNAME
                value: ""
              # Please use secret!
              - name: DB_PASSWORD
                value: ""
              - name: AWS_S3_ENDPOINT
                value: "https://s3.amazonaws.com"
              - name: AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME
                value: "xxx"
              - name: AWS_REGION
                value: "us-west-2"    
              - name: AWS_ACCESS_KEY
                value: "xxxx"        
              - name: AWS_SECRET_KEY
                value: "xxxx"    
              - name: AWS_DISABLE_SSL
                value: "false"
          restartPolicy: OnFailure
```

Commit message:

docs: update scheduled mode deployment

docs/how-tos/backup-to-s3.md, after:

---
title: Backup to AWS S3
layout: default
parent: How Tos
nav_order: 2
---
# Backup to AWS S3 

{: .note }
As described on local backup section, to change the storage of you backup and use S3 as storage. You need to add `--storage s3` (-s s3).
You can also specify a specify folder where you want to save you data by adding `--path /my-custom-path` flag.


## Backup to S3

```yml
services:
  mysql-bkup:
    # In production, it is advised to lock your image tag to a proper
    # release version instead of using `latest`.
    # Check https://github.com/jkaninda/mysql-bkup/releases
    # for a list of available releases.
    image: jkaninda/mysql-bkup
    container_name: mysql-bkup
    command: backup --storage s3 -d database --path /my-custom-path
    environment:
      - DB_PORT=3306
      - DB_HOST=mysql
      - DB_NAME=database
      - DB_USERNAME=username
      - DB_PASSWORD=password
      ## AWS configurations
      - AWS_S3_ENDPOINT=https://s3.amazonaws.com
      - AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME=backup
      - AWS_REGION="us-west-2"
      - AWS_ACCESS_KEY=xxxx
      - AWS_SECRET_KEY=xxxxx
      ## In case you are using S3 alternative such as Minio and your Minio instance is not secured, you change it to true
      - AWS_DISABLE_SSL="false"
 
    # mysql-bkup container must be connected to the same network with your database
    networks:
      - web
networks:
  web:
```

### Recurring backups to S3

As explained above, you need just to add AWS environment variables and specify the storage type `--storage s3`.
In case you need to use recurring backups, you can use `--cron-expression "0 1 * * *"` flag or  `BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION=0 1 * * *` as described below.

```yml
services:
  mysql-bkup:
    # In production, it is advised to lock your image tag to a proper
    # release version instead of using `latest`.
    # Check https://github.com/jkaninda/mysql-bkup/releases
    # for a list of available releases.
    image: jkaninda/mysql-bkup
    container_name: mysql-bkup
    command: backup --storage s3 -d my-database --cron-expression "0 1 * * *"
    environment:
      - DB_PORT=3306
      - DB_HOST=mysql
      - DB_NAME=database
      - DB_USERNAME=username
      - DB_PASSWORD=password
     ## AWS configurations
      - AWS_S3_ENDPOINT=https://s3.amazonaws.com
      - AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME=backup
      - AWS_REGION="us-west-2"
      - AWS_ACCESS_KEY=xxxx
      - AWS_SECRET_KEY=xxxxx
      # - BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION=0 1 * * * # Optional
      ## In case you are using S3 alternative such as Minio and your Minio instance is not secured, you change it to true
      - AWS_DISABLE_SSL="false"
     # mysql-bkup container must be connected to the same network with your database
    networks:
      - web
networks:
  web:
```

## Deploy on Kubernetes

For Kubernetes, you don't need to run it in scheduled mode. You can deploy it as CronJob.

### Simple Kubernetes CronJob usage:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: CronJob
metadata:
  name: bkup-job
spec:
  schedule: "0 1 * * *"
  jobTemplate:
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: mysql-bkup
            image: jkaninda/mysql-bkup
            command:
            - /bin/sh
            - -c
            - backup -s s3 --path /custom_path
            env:
              - name: DB_PORT
                value: "3306" 
              - name: DB_HOST
                value: ""
              - name: DB_NAME
                value: ""
              - name: DB_USERNAME
                value: ""
              # Please use secret!
              - name: DB_PASSWORD
                value: ""
              - name: AWS_S3_ENDPOINT
                value: "https://s3.amazonaws.com"
              - name: AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME
                value: "xxx"
              - name: AWS_REGION
                value: "us-west-2"    
              - name: AWS_ACCESS_KEY
                value: "xxxx"        
              - name: AWS_SECRET_KEY
                value: "xxxx"    
              - name: AWS_DISABLE_SSL
                value: "false"
          restartPolicy: OnFailure
```
