docs/reference/index.md, before:

---
title: Configuration Reference
layout: default
nav_order: 2
---

# Configuration reference

Backup and restore targets, schedule and retention are configured using environment variables or flags.





###  CLI utility Usage

| Options               | Shorts | Usage                                                                                  |
|-----------------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| mysql-bkup            | bkup   | CLI utility                                                                            |
| backup                |        | Backup database operation                                                              |
| restore               |        | Restore database operation                                                             |
| --storage             | -s     | Storage. local or s3 (default: local)                                                  |
| --file                | -f     | File name for restoration                                                              |
| --path                |        | AWS S3 path without file name. eg: /custom_path  or ssh remote path `/home/foo/backup` |
| --dbname              | -d     | Database name                                                                          |
| --port                | -p     | Database port (default: 3306)                                                          |
| --mode                | -m     | Execution mode. default or scheduled (default: default)                                |
| --disable-compression |        | Disable database backup compression                                                    |
| --prune               |        | Delete old backup, default disabled                                                    |
| --keep-last           |        | Delete old backup created more than specified days ago, default 7 days                 |
| --period              |        | Crontab period for scheduled mode only. (default: "0 1 * * *")                         |
| --help                | -h     | Print this help message and exit                                                       |
| --version             | -V     | Print version information and exit                                                     |

## Environment variables

| Name                   | Requirement                                         | Description                                          |
|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| DB_PORT                | Optional, default 3306                              | Database port number                                 |
| DB_HOST                | Required                                            | Database host                                        |
| DB_NAME                | Optional if it was provided from the -d flag        | Database name                                        |
| DB_USERNAME            | Required                                            | Database user name                                   |
| DB_PASSWORD            | Required                                            | Database password                                    |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY         | Optional, required for S3 storage                   | AWS S3 Access Key                                    |
| AWS_SECRET_KEY         | Optional, required for S3 storage                   | AWS S3 Secret Key                                    |
| AWS_BUCKET_NAME        | Optional, required for S3 storage                   | AWS S3 Bucket Name                                   |
| AWS_BUCKET_NAME        | Optional, required for S3 storage                   | AWS S3 Bucket Name                                   |
| AWS_REGION             | Optional, required for S3 storage                   | AWS Region                                           |
| AWS_DISABLE_SSL        | Optional, required for S3 storage                   | Disable SSL                                          |
| FILE_NAME              | Optional if it was provided from the --file flag    | Database file to restore (extensions: .sql, .sql.gz) |
| BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION | Optional if it was provided from the --period  flag | Cron expression                                      |
| GPG_PASSPHRASE         | Optional, required to encrypt and restore backup    | GPG passphrase                                       |
| SSH_HOST_NAME          | Optional, required for SSH storage                  | ssh remote hostname or ip                            |
| SSH_USER               | Optional, required for SSH storage                  | ssh remote user                                      |
| SSH_PASSWORD           | Optional, required for SSH storage                  | ssh remote user's password                           |
| SSH_IDENTIFY_FILE      | Optional, required for SSH storage                  | ssh remote user's private key                        |
| SSH_PORT               | Optional, required for SSH storage                  | ssh remote server port                               |
| SSH_REMOTE_PATH        | Optional, required for SSH storage                  | ssh remote path (/home/toto/backup)                  |

---
## Run in Scheduled mode

This image can be run as CronJob in Kubernetes for a regular backup which makes deployment on Kubernetes easy as Kubernetes has CronJob resources.
For Docker, you need to run it in scheduled mode by adding `--mode scheduled` flag and specify the periodical backup time by adding `--period "0 1 * * *"` flag.

## Syntax of crontab (field description)

The syntax is:

- 1: Minute (0-59)
- 2: Hours (0-23)
- 3: Day (0-31)
- 4: Month (0-12 [12 == December])
- 5: Day of the week(0-7 [7 or 0 == sunday])

Easy to remember format:

```conf
* * * * * command to be executed
```

```conf
- - - - -
| | | | |
| | | | ----- Day of week (0 - 7) (Sunday=0 or 7)
| | | ------- Month (1 - 12)
| | --------- Day of month (1 - 31)
| ----------- Hour (0 - 23)
------------- Minute (0 - 59)
```

> At every 30th minute

```conf
*/30 * * * *
```
> “At minute 0.” every hour
```conf
0 * * * *
```

> “At 01:00.” every day

```conf
0 1 * * *
```

Commit message:

feat: add migrate database from a source to a target databse fix: gpg encrypt permission warning message, update Kubernetes deployment example

docs/reference/index.md, after:

---
title: Configuration Reference
layout: default
nav_order: 2
---

# Configuration reference

Backup, restore and migrate targets, schedule and retention are configured using environment variables or flags.





###  CLI utility Usage

| Options               | Shorts | Usage                                                                                  |
|-----------------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| mysql-bkup            | bkup   | CLI utility                                                                            |
| backup                |        | Backup database operation                                                              |
| restore               |        | Restore database operation                                                             |
| migrate               |        | Migrate database from one instance to another one                                      |
| --storage             | -s     | Storage. local or s3 (default: local)                                                  |
| --file                | -f     | File name for restoration                                                              |
| --path                |        | AWS S3 path without file name. eg: /custom_path  or ssh remote path `/home/foo/backup` |
| --dbname              | -d     | Database name                                                                          |
| --port                | -p     | Database port (default: 3306)                                                          |
| --mode                | -m     | Execution mode. default or scheduled (default: default)                                |
| --disable-compression |        | Disable database backup compression                                                    |
| --prune               |        | Delete old backup, default disabled                                                    |
| --keep-last           |        | Delete old backup created more than specified days ago, default 7 days                 |
| --period              |        | Crontab period for scheduled mode only. (default: "0 1 * * *")                         |
| --help                | -h     | Print this help message and exit                                                       |
| --version             | -V     | Print version information and exit                                                     |

## Environment variables

| Name                   | Requirement                                        | Description                                          |
|------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| DB_PORT                | Optional, default 3306                             | Database port number                                 |
| DB_HOST                | Required                                           | Database host                                        |
| DB_NAME                | Optional if it was provided from the -d flag       | Database name                                        |
| DB_USERNAME            | Required                                           | Database user name                                   |
| DB_PASSWORD            | Required                                           | Database password                                    |
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY         | Optional, required for S3 storage                  | AWS S3 Access Key                                    |
| AWS_SECRET_KEY         | Optional, required for S3 storage                  | AWS S3 Secret Key                                    |
| AWS_BUCKET_NAME        | Optional, required for S3 storage                  | AWS S3 Bucket Name                                   |
| AWS_BUCKET_NAME        | Optional, required for S3 storage                  | AWS S3 Bucket Name                                   |
| AWS_REGION             | Optional, required for S3 storage                  | AWS Region                                           |
| AWS_DISABLE_SSL        | Optional, required for S3 storage                  | Disable SSL                                          |
| FILE_NAME              | Optional if it was provided from the --file flag   | Database file to restore (extensions: .sql, .sql.gz) |
| BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION | Optional if it was provided from the --period flag | Backup cron expression for docker in scheduled mode  |
| GPG_PASSPHRASE         | Optional, required to encrypt and restore backup   | GPG passphrase                                       |
| SSH_HOST_NAME          | Optional, required for SSH storage                 | ssh remote hostname or ip                            |
| SSH_USER               | Optional, required for SSH storage                 | ssh remote user                                      |
| SSH_PASSWORD           | Optional, required for SSH storage                 | ssh remote user's password                           |
| SSH_IDENTIFY_FILE      | Optional, required for SSH storage                 | ssh remote user's private key                        |
| SSH_PORT               | Optional, required for SSH storage                 | ssh remote server port                               |
| SSH_REMOTE_PATH        | Optional, required for SSH storage                 | ssh remote path (/home/toto/backup)                  |
| SOURCE_DB_HOST         | Optional, required for database migration          | Source database host                                 |
| SOURCE_DB_PORT         | Optional, required for database migration          | Source database port                                 |
| SOURCE_DB_NAME         | Optional, required for database migration          | Source database name                                 |
| SOURCE_DB_USERNAME     | Optional, required for database migration          | Source database username                             |
| SOURCE_DB_PASSWORD     | Optional, required for database migration          | Source database password                             |

---
## Run in Scheduled mode

This image can be run as CronJob in Kubernetes for a regular backup which makes deployment on Kubernetes easy as Kubernetes has CronJob resources.
For Docker, you need to run it in scheduled mode by adding `--mode scheduled` flag and specify the periodical backup time by adding `--period "0 1 * * *"` flag.

## Syntax of crontab (field description)

The syntax is:

- 1: Minute (0-59)
- 2: Hours (0-23)
- 3: Day (0-31)
- 4: Month (0-12 [12 == December])
- 5: Day of the week(0-7 [7 or 0 == sunday])

Easy to remember format:

```conf
* * * * * command to be executed
```

```conf
- - - - -
| | | | |
| | | | ----- Day of week (0 - 7) (Sunday=0 or 7)
| | | ------- Month (1 - 12)
| | --------- Day of month (1 - 31)
| ----------- Hour (0 - 23)
------------- Minute (0 - 59)
```

> At every 30th minute

```conf
*/30 * * * *
```
> “At minute 0.” every hour
```conf
0 * * * *
```

> “At 01:00.” every day

```conf
0 1 * * *
```
